So back in the app we worked on.
Again I have my back and opened in one window and front and opened in another window.
Now in this project here we want to have a look at the different api keys and you are elsewhere using
to ensure that we can use the same keys and same you are else.
Once we push our app onto a server.
Now let's start here on the back end there.
I got a couple of values which I might want to swap between development and production.
Most importantly if we go to the app J.S. file there we connect to mongo D.B. with a certain user a
certain password and a certain database.
Now it's not unlikely that we might want to use a different Hmong would you be Atlas account here a
different database so different values for our app that runs in production than we do for our app that
we test locally.
The database should definitely be a different one so that we don't interfere with the data of our real
users.
If we then continue working on the app locally in development.
So if we then add new features add new dummy data and we mess with the database our real users are writing
too as well.
We don't want to do that.
So it would be nice if these values User name password and also the database name would be kind of variable
and depending on where we run does the locally or on a real server we insert different value stare.
Now thankfully that is something we can do without too much effort locally here.
I am using Node 1 right.
We were starting aptly as with Node 1.
Now we can add a node Monbiot Jason File to provide some configuration to Node 1.
Now you can check out node Mohn stocks to learn all about the configuration values you can provide there.
This should be a Jason format.
And here I am interested in the end key which we can set up their end for environment.
And there we can set up so-called environment variables.
These are variables variable data which depends or where the values depend on the environment you're
running in.
And you can refer to them in your code.
And therefore based on the environment your code is being executed in you will be using different values
in your code ends in the Node 1 conflict takes an object.
And now there you can't have any names any keys of your choice for example D.B. user you don't have
to write it like this this can be any name of your choice and then you enter the value here.
So here it will actually stick to this value and it will use Academy and here as a user and hence enter
this year between double quotes on the right side as a value.
I will also store my password here with DB password and then here go back to AB J.S. and grab that password.
And copy that into Node 1 Jason.
And then also the be names so the database name here I will use merge because that is the value I'm
using here too.
Now these are my development values.
You might wonder where do we enter the value is we want to use in production.
So when our app really runs on a server.
Well that depends on the hosting provider you're using in the end.
If you're using some service that does all the general setup for your application as we will do later
then this service will give you an easy to use way to provide such environment variables.
And it will come back to that once we really move our application onto such a real server.
So you will later see how to configure values for the production mode as well.
These are our development mode values and now we just have to refer to them in our script of course.
Now here I'm already setting this connection string as with back ticks so that they can dynamically
inject values.
If you're not doing that make sure you do so.
And with that here we can inject the value instead of the hardcoded user name.
We have to refer to process thought and dot and then the name of your environment variables.
So in my case your DV user this process dot ends thing is something no Che s provides to you.
There is a global process variable which is always available.
It has an end key and this gives you access to the environment variables that are injected into the
running no chase process and no adman injects these values.
And as I mentioned later when we run this on a server different values will be injected.
So with that we can refer to a value for the user here and all of for DV password and then here at the
end instead of this hardcoded database named Stevie underscore a name which I chose here in Node 1 Jason.
So with that we're injecting dynamic values here.
Now in the back and I got two other things I could inject and that for one is in the Utah folder my
Google API key here we might always want to use that in that case we could also hardcoded here but if
we want to use a different key for local development and for running those in production which is not
unlikely then we might want to inject this here or get this from our environment variables as well.
So here we could then refer to process that ends Google API key or however you want to name it and now
you just have to provide such API key here in Node 1.
Jason now the concrete value is something I will come back to because I want to tweak that API key or
at least have a look at it in the Google developer console before we actually use it again.
So I'll just enter a placeholder here will take care about the actual value soon.
And one other last place I want to replace with an environment variable on the back end here is my private
key for the Jason Webb token in the user's controller.
When we create a web token I use this private key here.
Right now we can definitely hardcoded into this file like this but of course keep in mind that we are
reusing it multiple times.
We're using the same key here in sign up and then all here in our check of middleware hence alone from
the code reuse such perspective.
It would make sense to outsource this or to store it is in an environment variable.
So here I will add the JWT key and store my key in there without the single quotes.
And of course this can be any string you want.
And again you could be using a different string for local development than you do for production.
This might be a good idea because if you push your local development code to get hub or to some public
repository you might want to ensure that you're not using keys here which you also use in production.
Though if you are pushing your data to a public repository you might in general not want to include
this entire node one chase and file in the repository because it contains a lot of confidential data.
But if you would push it it's still better to have different values for development than you do have
for production.
So that at least your production environment is safe well and now with that we can again inject this
JWT key so in check off here where I need that key I can use process thought and dot JWT key.
And of course do the same in the user's controller.
When ever we use that private key.
So here in sign up and also if we scroll up a bit.
That was log in all of you scroll up a bit here in sign up now.
Now with this if I start dead I get an error or db name.
Yeah.
Here in my connection string of course it always has to be processed not inthe dot environment variable
name.
So with that fixed if I now start as it should start again it should connect to the database that should
all be working and with it up and running.
Let's next have a look at the front end before I then also come back here to this Google API key thing.